docs/content/1.getting-started/2.installation/1.nuxt.md, before:

---
title: Installation
description: 'Learn how to install and configure Nuxt UI in your Nuxt application.'
framework: nuxt
module: ui
links:
  - label: Playground
    to: https://codesandbox.io/p/devbox/nuxt-ui3-n3sxks
    icon: i-lucide-codesandbox
navigation.icon: i-lucide-square-play
---

::callout{to="/getting-started/installation/vue" icon="i-logos-vue" class="hidden"}
Looking for the **Vue** version?
::

## Setup

### Add to a Nuxt project

::steps{level="4"}

#### Install the Nuxt UI v3 beta package

::code-group{sync="pm"}

```bash [pnpm]
pnpm add @nuxt/ui@next
```

```bash [yarn]
yarn add @nuxt/ui@next
```

```bash [npm]
npm install @nuxt/ui@next
```

```bash [bun]
bun add @nuxt/ui@next
```

::

::warning
If you're using **pnpm**, ensure that you either set [`shamefully-hoist=true`](https://pnpm.io/npmrc#shamefully-hoist) in your `.npmrc` file or install `tailwindcss` in your project's root directory.
::

#### Add the Nuxt UI module in your `nuxt.config.ts`{lang="ts-type"}

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  modules: ['@nuxt/ui']
})
```

#### Import Tailwind CSS and Nuxt UI in your CSS

::code-group

```css [app/assets/css/main.css]
@import "tailwindcss" theme(static);
@import "@nuxt/ui";
```

```ts [nuxt.config.ts] {3}
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  modules: ['@nuxt/ui'],
  css: ['~/assets/css/main.css']
})
```

::

::warning
The `theme(static)` is required since [`tailwindcss@4.0.8`](https://github.com/tailwindlabs/tailwindcss/releases/tag/v4.0.8) introduced a breaking change to only expose used CSS variables.
::

::callout{icon="i-simple-icons-visualstudiocode"}
It's recommended to install the [Tailwind CSS IntelliSense](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=bradlc.vscode-tailwindcss) extension for VSCode and add the following settings:

```json [.vscode/settings.json]
"files.associations": {
  "*.css": "tailwindcss"
},
"editor.quickSuggestions": {
  "strings": "on"
}
```

::

#### Wrap your app with App component

```vue [app.vue]
<template>
  <UApp>
    <NuxtPage />
  </UApp>
</template>
```

::note{to="/components/app"}
The `App` component provides global configurations and is required for **Toast**, **Tooltip** components to work as well as **Programmatic Overlays**.
::

::

### Use our Nuxt Starter

Start your project using the [nuxt/starter#ui3](https://github.com/nuxt/starter/tree/ui3) template with Nuxt UI v3 pre-configured.

Create a new project locally by running the following command:

```bash [Terminal]
npx nuxi init -t ui3 <my-app>
```

::note
The `<my-app>` argument is the name of the directory where the project will be created, replace it with your project name.
::

Once the installation is complete, navigate into your project and start the development server:

```bash [Terminal]
cd <my-app>
npm run dev
```

## Options

You can customize Nuxt UI by providing options in your `nuxt.config.ts`.

### `prefix`

Use the `prefix` option to change the prefix of the components.

- Default: `U`{lang="ts-type"}

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  modules: ['@nuxt/ui'],
  css: ['~/assets/css/main.css'],
  ui: {
    prefix: 'Nuxt'
  }
})
```

### `fonts`

Use the `fonts` option to enable or disable the [`@nuxt/fonts`](https://github.com/nuxt/fonts) module.

- Default: `true`{lang="ts-type"}

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  modules: ['@nuxt/ui'],
  css: ['~/assets/css/main.css'],
  ui: {
    fonts: false
  }
})
```

### `colorMode`

Use the `colorMode` option to enable or disable the [`@nuxt/color-mode`](https://github.com/nuxt-modules/color-mode) module.

- Default: `true`{lang="ts-type"}

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  modules: ['@nuxt/ui'],
  css: ['~/assets/css/main.css'],
  ui: {
    colorMode: false
  }
})
```

### `theme.colors`

Use the `theme.colors` option to define the dynamic color aliases used to generate components theme.

- Default: `['primary', 'secondary', 'success', 'info', 'warning', 'error']`{lang="ts-type" class="inline"}

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  modules: ['@nuxt/ui'],
  css: ['~/assets/css/main.css'],
  ui: {
    theme: {
      colors: ['primary', 'error']
    }
  }
})
```

::tip{to="/getting-started/theme#colors"}
Learn more about color customization and theming in the Theme section.
::

### `theme.transitions`

Use the `theme.transitions` option to enable or disable transitions on components.

- Default: `true`{lang="ts-type"}

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  modules: ['@nuxt/ui'],
  css: ['~/assets/css/main.css'],
  ui: {
    theme: {
      transitions: false
    }
  }
})
```

::note
This option adds the `transition-colors` class on components with hover or active states.
::

## Continuous Releases

Nuxt UI v3 uses [pkg.pr.new](https://github.com/stackblitz-labs/pkg.pr.new) for continuous preview releases, providing developers with instant access to the latest features and bug fixes without waiting for official releases.

Preview releases are automatically generated for every commit to the `v3` branch and pull requests targeting the `v3` branch. To use it into your project, use the installation command below by replacing `5385f84` with any commit hash or pull request number.

::code-group{sync="pm"}

```bash [pnpm]
pnpm add https://pkg.pr.new/@nuxt/ui@5385f84
```

```bash [yarn]
yarn add https://pkg.pr.new/@nuxt/ui@5385f84
```

```bash [npm]
npm install https://pkg.pr.new/@nuxt/ui@5385f84
```

```bash [bun]
bun add https://pkg.pr.new/@nuxt/ui@5385f84
```

::

::note
**pkg.pr.new** will automatically comment on PRs with the installation URL, making it easy to test changes.
::

Commit message:

docs(installation): improve continuous releases section

docs/content/1.getting-started/2.installation/1.nuxt.md, after:

---
title: Installation
description: 'Learn how to install and configure Nuxt UI in your Nuxt application.'
framework: nuxt
module: ui
links:
  - label: Playground
    to: https://codesandbox.io/p/devbox/nuxt-ui3-n3sxks
    icon: i-lucide-codesandbox
navigation.icon: i-lucide-square-play
---

::callout{to="/getting-started/installation/vue" icon="i-logos-vue" class="hidden"}
Looking for the **Vue** version?
::

## Setup

### Add to a Nuxt project

::steps{level="4"}

#### Install the Nuxt UI v3 beta package

::code-group{sync="pm"}

```bash [pnpm]
pnpm add @nuxt/ui@next
```

```bash [yarn]
yarn add @nuxt/ui@next
```

```bash [npm]
npm install @nuxt/ui@next
```

```bash [bun]
bun add @nuxt/ui@next
```

::

::warning
If you're using **pnpm**, ensure that you either set [`shamefully-hoist=true`](https://pnpm.io/npmrc#shamefully-hoist) in your `.npmrc` file or install `tailwindcss` in your project's root directory.
::

#### Add the Nuxt UI module in your `nuxt.config.ts`{lang="ts-type"}

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  modules: ['@nuxt/ui']
})
```

#### Import Tailwind CSS and Nuxt UI in your CSS

::code-group

```css [app/assets/css/main.css]
@import "tailwindcss" theme(static);
@import "@nuxt/ui";
```

```ts [nuxt.config.ts] {3}
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  modules: ['@nuxt/ui'],
  css: ['~/assets/css/main.css']
})
```

::

::warning
The `theme(static)` is required since [`tailwindcss@4.0.8`](https://github.com/tailwindlabs/tailwindcss/releases/tag/v4.0.8) introduced a breaking change to only expose used CSS variables.
::

::callout{icon="i-simple-icons-visualstudiocode"}
It's recommended to install the [Tailwind CSS IntelliSense](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=bradlc.vscode-tailwindcss) extension for VSCode and add the following settings:

```json [.vscode/settings.json]
"files.associations": {
  "*.css": "tailwindcss"
},
"editor.quickSuggestions": {
  "strings": "on"
}
```

::

#### Wrap your app with App component

```vue [app.vue]
<template>
  <UApp>
    <NuxtPage />
  </UApp>
</template>
```

::note{to="/components/app"}
The `App` component provides global configurations and is required for **Toast**, **Tooltip** components to work as well as **Programmatic Overlays**.
::

::

### Use our Nuxt Starter

Start your project using the [nuxt/starter#ui3](https://github.com/nuxt/starter/tree/ui3) template with Nuxt UI v3 pre-configured.

Create a new project locally by running the following command:

```bash [Terminal]
npx nuxi init -t ui3 <my-app>
```

::note
The `<my-app>` argument is the name of the directory where the project will be created, replace it with your project name.
::

Once the installation is complete, navigate into your project and start the development server:

```bash [Terminal]
cd <my-app>
npm run dev
```

## Options

You can customize Nuxt UI by providing options in your `nuxt.config.ts`.

### `prefix`

Use the `prefix` option to change the prefix of the components.

- Default: `U`{lang="ts-type"}

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  modules: ['@nuxt/ui'],
  css: ['~/assets/css/main.css'],
  ui: {
    prefix: 'Nuxt'
  }
})
```

### `fonts`

Use the `fonts` option to enable or disable the [`@nuxt/fonts`](https://github.com/nuxt/fonts) module.

- Default: `true`{lang="ts-type"}

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  modules: ['@nuxt/ui'],
  css: ['~/assets/css/main.css'],
  ui: {
    fonts: false
  }
})
```

### `colorMode`

Use the `colorMode` option to enable or disable the [`@nuxt/color-mode`](https://github.com/nuxt-modules/color-mode) module.

- Default: `true`{lang="ts-type"}

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  modules: ['@nuxt/ui'],
  css: ['~/assets/css/main.css'],
  ui: {
    colorMode: false
  }
})
```

### `theme.colors`

Use the `theme.colors` option to define the dynamic color aliases used to generate components theme.

- Default: `['primary', 'secondary', 'success', 'info', 'warning', 'error']`{lang="ts-type" class="inline"}

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  modules: ['@nuxt/ui'],
  css: ['~/assets/css/main.css'],
  ui: {
    theme: {
      colors: ['primary', 'error']
    }
  }
})
```

::tip{to="/getting-started/theme#colors"}
Learn more about color customization and theming in the Theme section.
::

### `theme.transitions`

Use the `theme.transitions` option to enable or disable transitions on components.

- Default: `true`{lang="ts-type"}

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  modules: ['@nuxt/ui'],
  css: ['~/assets/css/main.css'],
  ui: {
    theme: {
      transitions: false
    }
  }
})
```

::note
This option adds the `transition-colors` class on components with hover or active states.
::

## Continuous Releases

Nuxt UI v3 uses [pkg.pr.new](https://github.com/stackblitz-labs/pkg.pr.new) for continuous preview releases, providing developers with instant access to the latest features and bug fixes without waiting for official releases.

Automatic preview releases are created for all commits and PRs to the `v3` branch. Use them by replacing your package version with the specific commit hash or PR number.

```diff [package.json]
{
  "dependencies": {
-   "@nuxt/ui": "^3.0.0-beta.3",
+   "@nuxt/ui": "https://pkg.pr.new/@nuxt/ui@83725ac",
  }
}
```

::note
**pkg.pr.new** will automatically comment on PRs with the installation URL, making it easy to test changes.
::
